Quarto doc to calculate "average scheme assumptions" (#5)
The-Strategy-Unit/bsol-community-left-shift-opps: schemes_latest_averages.qmd

  model runs. Currently some intervals are only available in a small number of
  model runs. It would be possible to filter out TPMAs from the final table
  where the summary values are taken from a distribution based on small numbers
  of model runs (eg 4 or fewer?).
7. Out-of-range interval values provided by schemes are excluded. This includes
  4 cases where schemes have provided p10/p90 values greater than 1, and one
  case where a p10 value is given as 0.1 (ie 90% reduction in activity), which
  is thought to be a user error.
8. `p10`, `p50` and `p90` values are printed in the final table rounded to 3dp,
  for presentational reasons. It is simple to provide these instead without
  rounding if desired.

Where these assumptions are not in line with what is required, it is simple to
make changes to the process.
Please contact Fran Barton with details of any amendments, or any questions.

## Run stage tags in priority order

Only runs with the following tags can be included, and for each scheme only 1
run is chosen, based on the order of the following list (top priority at the
top):

* `final_report_ndg2`
* `final_report_ndg3`

> * `final_report_ndg3_rd`

Reviewer: What is this one for? Is RD a reference to me?

Author: I hadn't seen this tag before and I don't know where it comes from, or if rd refers to you. I left it in the list because I thought it might be an equivalent tag to `final_report_ndg3` - but in fact none of the 24 params we end up using here has that tag, so I could remove it. My intention in leaving it in was partly as a prompt to check if/how we should be using that tag.

Reviewer: @matt-dray Do you know about the `final_report_ndg3_rd` tag? Is it a hangover from when I accidentally copied a tagged run? If so can we delete the tag?

Reviewer 2: Aha yes, iirc you (Rhian) had used some final_report_ndg3 tags for some testing, just prior to when NDG3 became the official comparator. The _rd distinguishes these results from 'real' _ndg3 runs that were used later for schemes' output reports. I suggest we remove all instances of 'final_report_ndg3_rd' to prevent confusion, if you agree? Edit: the specific scenarios can be viewed in [the tagged-runs table](https://connect.strategyunitwm.nhs.uk/nhp/tagged_runs/), of course.

Author: Have now removed as an option from this quarto - not that they were being used here anyway

Reviewer: I spoke to Matt about this. These tags were created when I made manual ndg3 runs in 2024. I've since removed the runstage from those runs so `final_report_ndg3_rd` should not appear in future.

Reviewer 2: Indeed, I just refreshed [the tagged runs table](https://connect.strategyunitwm.nhs.uk/nhp/tagged_runs/) and they're gone, cheers.

supplied as projections of activity avoidance / efficiencies over different time
spans (eg some were 2019-2036, others 2023-2041, for example), we need to
standardise each set of intervals to an annualised rate, before creating
the mixture distributions, and then multiply up our results to a standard time
period.

```{r standardise projections}
run_lookup <- params_data_tbl_summary |>
  dplyr::select(!"app_version") |>
  tidyr::unite(run_label, c("dataset", "scenario", "create_datetime"))

annualise <- \(x, p) `^`(x, (1 / p))

annualised_intervals_tbl <- tidy_intervals_tbl |>
  dplyr::left_join(run_lookup, "run_label") |>
  dplyr::mutate(
    period = .data[["end_year"]] - .data[["start_year"]],
    .keep = "unused"
  ) |>
  dplyr::mutate(
    annualised_p10 = annualise(.data[["p10"]], .data[["period"]]),
    annualised_p90 = annualise(.data[["p90"]], .data[["period"]]),
    .keep = "unused"
  )

```

Now we use a function to generate a distribution across all `p10` and `p90`
values for each strategy.
We then apply a "reinflation" function that converts the annualised p10 and p90
values back to quantities that would apply over, in this case, 5 years or 7
years.

> (This uses to the exponent of the annualised values to the power of 5 and 7

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(This raises the annualised values to the power of 5 and 7
```

Author: Thanks - think my brain had stopped doing words properly by that point!
